# Contributing to `nvim-web-devicons`

Thank you for your contribution!

## Quick: Add/Change An Icon

1. Copy or modify a line in `icons-default.lua` and set:
   - `icon`
   - `color` (dark)
   - `name`
1. Run `make` to:
   - generate `cterm_color`
   - format/order/normalise `icons-default.lua`
   - generate `icons-light.lua`
1. Commit both `icons-default.lua` and `icons-default.lua`

## Prerequisites

Code is formatted using *stylua* and linted using *luacheck*.

You can install these with:

```sh
cargo install stylua
luarocks install luacheck
```

or via your OS package manager e.g. *Arch Linux*:

```sh
pacman -S stylua luacheck
```

## Building

Following your changes, please run:

```sh
make
```

This will:

1. `git clone --depth 1 https://github.com/lifepillar/vim-colortemplate.git vim-colortemplate` if necessary
2. Generate cterm colors
3. Generate light color variants
4. Check style
5. Lint
6. Find missing filetypes

You can automatically fix any style issues via:

```sh
make style-fix
```

## Generate Colors

Add or update icons in `lua/nvim-web-devicons/icons-default.lua`

There are five tables where icons can be added:

1. `icons_by_filename`
2. `icons_by_file_extension`
3. `icons_by_operating_system`
4. `icons_by_desktop_environment`
5. `icons_by_window_manager`

Add the icon to table **1.** if the icon is for a file that is always named that way, for example `.gitconfig`.
Add the icon to table **2.** if the icon is for all files with an extension, for example `vim`.
Add the icon to table **3.**, **4.**, **5.** if the icon is from an OS, DE or WM.

Each icon must have the following structure (this is an example):

```lua
  ["lua"]           = { icon = "", color = "#51A0CF", cterm_color = "74",  name = "Lua"                        },
```

> [!IMPORTANT]
> If the icon you need is not available on Nerd Fonts you first need to make a
> PR to a project that feeds glyphs to Nerd Fonts. Probably the most adequate
> project to contribute is <https://github.com/devicons/devicon>.
> Take into account that **months** can pass before the icon is available on the
> Nerd Fonts project, once there feel free to open a PR on this project.

***Key/value pairs must appear in the same exact order!***

- `color` must contain a color in the html notation
- `cterm_color` must contain a number (any number)
- the correct value for `cterm_color` will be generated by the script
- `name` must only contain alphanumeric characters (don't use `/`, `-`, `_`)

Ensure your current working directory is the repo root. Run `make`. This will:

- Update `cterm_color` based on `color`
- Format/order/normalise `lua/nvim-web-devicons/icons-default.lua`
- Generate `lua/nvim-web-devicons/icons-light.lua`

Please commit both `lua/nvim-web-devicons/icons-default.lua` and `lua/nvim-web-devicons/icons-light.lua`

## Test

Run `:NvimWebDeviconsHiTest` to view the icons and their highlighting.

Start *Neovim* with `TERM=xterm-256color nvim ...` to test cterm.

Check with `&background` `dark` and `light`

## Documentation

When modifying or adding API, please update [Usage](README.md#Usage)

## Pull Request

Please reference any issues in the description e.g. "resolves #1234", which will be closed upon merge.

Please check "allow edits by maintainers" to allow *nvim-web-devicons* maintainers to make small changes
such as documentation tweaks.

## Subject

The merge commit message will be the subject of the PR.

A [Conventional Commits] subject will be validated by the Semantic Pull Request Subject CI job.
Reference the issue to be used in the release notes e.g.

```txt
feat: add gradle icons
fix: update rust icon
feat(#192): :NvimWebDeviconsHiTest
```

Available types:

- feat: A new feature
- fix: A bug fix
- docs: Documentation only changes
- style: Changes that do not affect the meaning of the code (white-space, formatting, missing semi-colons, etc)
- refactor: A code change that neither fixes a bug nor adds a feature
- perf: A code change that improves performance
- test: Adding missing tests or correcting existing tests
- build: Changes that affect the build system or external dependencies (example scopes: gulp, broccoli, npm)
- ci: Changes to our CI configuration files and scripts (example scopes: Travis, Circle, BrowserStack, SauceLabs)
- chore: Other changes that don't modify src or test files
- revert: Reverts a previous commit

If in doubt, look at previous commits.

See also [The Conventional Commits ultimate cheatsheet](https://gist.github.com/gabrielecanepa/fa6cca1a8ae96f77896fe70ddee65527)

## Browser Font

It is useful to see the actual glyphs in the pull request. That can be done by setting the browser font to your Nerd Font.

Using Firefox:

- Settings -> General
- Fonts -> Advanced
- Change Monospace to "Hack Nerd Font Mono" or similar
- Uncheck "Allow pages to choose their own fonts, instead of your selections above"

[Conventional Commits]: <https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0>
